greg benson here at commodity classic
talking to carlos grunts who's the
president the National wheat growers
association and Carl's from klamath
falls oregon vs talk about the the crop
out in your area and some of the issues
you're facing this year potentially with
really focuses on California water
issues well sure we kind of have a
similar situation in the Southern Oregon
we have an area that's about 300,000
acres base in the farming area and we're
so we're suffering some from some water
problems because someone like they are
in the Central Valley we have some
endangered species where we have like
level minimums and until that leg gets
to a certain high the level we can't
start irrigating so you know that's kind
of a concern for me on personal basis
right now how potentially dangerous the
situation is that for you and other
farmers in your area well totally we
grow lots of road cross potatoes onions
there's a lot of strawberry rootstock
for example high value crops horseradish
things like just some specialty crops
and cattle and grain and you know it's
just we are totally dependent on
irrigation we cannot grow a dryer and
crop in our area let's shift to the the
issues facing nog right now and just
outline for me real quickly your
legislative and regulatory agenda for
this year well sure as far as a farm
bill policy our committees are meeting
here at classic and can some work done
in that area of I think our biggest
concerns are you know if they reopen the
farm bill and have a budget of
reconciliation sitting money savings you
know we we want to be very careful about
money being taken out of the farm bill
for you know proc commodity price to
take the wheat prices right now or you
know
getting low way below the cost of
production so we sure don't need any of
that safety net taken away also you know
we're working on the crop insurance
issue that you know they're working with
agents of our risk management on the
money that's paid to the private
contractors of for crop insurance let's
talk about the potential for opening up
the farm bill again which is what here
what are your people in Washington Tony
the odds are on that well we had a
winter meeting in January and DC and and
chairman Collin Peterson the chairman of
the house AG committee came and told us
that that was probably a decent a good
possibility they will so to be you know
we worried that what what's the
potential impact for wheat growers that
that happens well i mean the the safety
net that works for farmers right now as
wheat farmers as you know the direct
payment many people the only payments
they've gotten in a number of years
actually since the 2004 farm bill has
been you know direct payments on the
farmer can depend on and also just in
from what the conversation I here around
the committee table is prob insurance so
so that you know not that they would
take me from that at this time but you
know direct payment is something that's
very very important to wheat farmer crop
insurance issue not is something that
people do talk a lot about those I mean
I think it away right now but there's
certainly a chance of that coming down
the pike isn't there just most
definitely you know and what I like
about crop insurance is something that
you know the policy you kind of have
some control over that it's like you
know your production history it's based
on your production history you pay money
into that program and also you know it's
subsidized especially
you know and I buy a pretty high rate I
have an eighty percent coverage crop
revenue coverage on on all my wheat and
and I think you know over time it's not
going to be a moneymaker it's a risk
management tool that I think it's very
important to wheat farmers I mean when
you live in an area that house drew do
but where we'd has grown there's
potential for drought and and just got
crop failures and so you need something
to even that out and I don't know that
you're going to be making money with
crop insurance but at least it evens out
the risk what will that mean to your
association but just wheat growers in
general I mean we lose them probably
would lose a lot of weed acres in the US
that were to happen with it not most
definitely I mean you know I believe in
a food policy and for our country and
hence and part of that is I think
keeping agriculture in our country and I
think the most better self sustaining we
can be the better off we are as a nation
that's just you know that I just
strongly believe that and and I think
most people would too dependent on
foreign sources of food is you know
could be you know hit and miss on
availability and price so and quality of
food and safety of food I mean there's a
whole array of issues that could be
attributed to growing our own food and
having control over that and is that
something that we can afford in the
world right now when you look at some of
the drop in wheat acres around the
around the globe exactly right i mean
you know last year there was a record
amount of wheat grown lots of weed on
the market sure you know if the price
goes down people quit growing crop
failure somewhere you know could be
right back in the situation where a few
years ago alright that's Carl sconce the
president of the National Association
wheat growers from Klamath Falls Oregon
out here at commodity classic in anaheim
california